Passage 1

The doctor picked up the newborn baby by the ankles and

slapped its bottom. The baby started to cry.

In Boston, Massachusetts, there is a hospital that caters mainly

for those who suffer from the diseases of the rich, and on selected

occasions allows itself to deliver the new rich. The mothers rarely

scream, and they certainly don’t give birth fully dressed.

A young man was pacing up and down outside the delivery

room; inside, two obstetricians and the family doctor were in

attendance. This father did not believe in taking risks with his

firstborn. The obstetricians would be paid a large fee to stand by

and witness events. One of them, who wore evening clothes under

his long white coat, was late for a dinner party, but he could not

afford to absent himself from this particular birth. The three had

earlier drawn straws to decide who should deliver the child, and

Dr MacKenzie, the family doctor, had won. A sound, reliable

man, the father thought, as he paced up and down the corridor.

Not that he had any reason to be anxious. Roberts had driven

the young man’s wife to the hospital in their hansom carriage

earlier that morning, which the doctor had calculated was the

twenty-eighth day of her ninth month. Anne had gone into labour

soon after breakfast, and he had been assured that the birth would

not take place until his bank had closed for the day. The father

was a disciplined man and saw no reason why the arrival of a

child should interrupt his well-ordered life. Nevertheless, he

continued to pace. Nurses and doctors hurried past him, lowering

their voices as they approached him and raising them again only

when they were out of his earshot. He didn’t notice, because

everybody always treated him this way. Most of the hospital staff

had never seen him in person, but all of them knew who he was.

When his son was born — it never occurred to him, even for a

moment, that the child might be a girl — he would build the new

children’s wing the hospital so badly needed. His grandfather

had already built a library and his father a school for the local

community.

The expectant father tried to read the evening paper, looking

over the words but not taking in their meaning. He was nervous,

even anxious. It would never do for them (he looked upon almost

everyone as ‘them’) to know how important it was that his

firstborn be a boy, a boy who would one day take his place as

president and chairman of the bank. He turned to the sports

pages of the Evening Transcript. The Boston Red Sox had beaten

the New York Highlanders — other people would be celebrating.

Then he saw the headline on the front page: the worst earthquake

in the history of America. Devastation in San Francisco, at least

four hundred people dead — other people would be mourning.

He hated that. It would take away from the birth of his son.







