Passage 2

William could see that one list was considerably

longer than the other, but he could not decipher which was

which.

Finally the secretary announced that all the votes had been

counted. He then solemnly said that William Kane had lost the

vote of confidence by seventeen votes to twelve.

William couldn’t believe what he had heard. Abel Rosnovski

had defeated him in his own boardroom. He managed to stand

up with the use of his cane, but no one spoke as he left the

boardroom. He went to his office and collected his coat, pausing

only to glance at the portrait of Charles Lester for the last time,

before walking slowly down the long corridor and towards the

front entrance.

Harry opened the door for him and said, ‘Nice to have you

back again, Mr Chairman. See you tomorrow, sir.’

William realized he would never see Harry again. He turned

and shook hands with the man who had directed him to the

boardroom twenty-three years before.

Harry looked surprised. ‘Good night, sir,’ he said, and watched

as William climbed into the back of his car and was driven home.

As William stepped out of the car on East Sixty-Eighth Street,

he collapsed onto the pavement in front of his home. The

chauffeur and Kate had to help him up the steps and into the

house. Kate could see that he was crying as she put her arms

around him.

‘What is it, William? What’s happened?”

‘Tve been thrown out of the:bank,’ he wept. ‘My own board

no longer has confidence in me. When it mattered, they sup-

ported Rosnovski.’

Kate managed to get him up to bed, and sat with him through

the night. Hé did not say another word. Nor did he sleep.

The announcement in The Wall Street Journal the following

Monday morning was succinct: “William Lowell Kane, the Presi-

dent and Chairman of Lester’s Bank, resigned following last

Friday's board meeting.’ No explanation was given for his sudden

departure, and there was no suggestion that his son would take

his place on the board. William sat in his bed aware that rumours

would be sweeping through Wall Street that morning, and that

the worst would be assumed. He no longer cared for this world.

After Abel Rosnovski had read the same announcement he

picked up the phone, dialled Lester's Bank and asked to be put

through to the new chairman. A few moments later Jake Thomas

came on the line.

‘Good morning, Mr Rosnovski.’

‘Good morning, Mr Thomas. I’m just phoning to confirm that

I shall release all my Interstate Airways shares to the bank this

morning at the market price, and my eight per cent holding in

Lester’s to you personally for two million dollars.’

‘Thank you, Mr Rosnovski, that’s most generous of you.”

‘No need to thank me, Mr Chairman,’ said Abel. ‘It’s no more

than we agreed when you sold me your two per cent.’